uh my name is Kieran saer I am a chief
strategy officer and part of the
founding management team at samsara and
I'm really looking forward to our
conversation today about learnings from
scaling six different products to $100
million in sales and Beyond across two
different
companies so these are the five lessons
we're going to talk about first a single
metric that I have come to to know and
love dearly that helps us guide the
decisions of when to scale when to it
rate when to Pivot second the importance
of discovering the entire market and
mapping out all the ver potential
verticals for your products early in the
process three the incredible power and
value of the mid-market segment as a way
to start and scale a business fourth the
importance of building customer feedback
into the DNA both of your product team
as well as your product itself and fifth
the importance of going multiproduct
early probably earlier than you think
you should
so let's dive in there are so many SAS
metrics out there they're all valuable
in their own way obviously ARR growth
and uh cash burn are some of the most
important if you can grow ARR without
running out of money you're going to do
all right um but how do we achieve that
what are the metrics that we can use to
really steer our business uh there's one
metric that I've come to really deeply
appreciate because it's a single metric
that can reflect market demand and
product Market fit how well our go to
market engine is executing and the
product the quality of our product and
that is CAC payback period so as I
expect most of you know in SAS you incur
a significant cost acquiring a customer
before they pay you a dollar this is
your lead genen your sdrs your sales
team uh salary and commission you
acquire the customer they pay you a
subscription some of that goes to
providing your service right your Cloud
hosting cost Etc and the rest is profit
and eventually they pay back that
acquisition cost that time between when
you acquire the customer and they pay
back their acquisition cost is called
the ca payback period typically measured
in
months so this metric is incredible
because it tells us so much about the
physics of the business and how we
should be
scaling it tells us about market demand
if you have a product that really
resonates with end customers where it's
solving a burning pain for them they are
going to be coming to you you're not
going to have to spend a long time
explaining the product and they're going
to transact quickly all that means
you're spending Less on leads it means
your reps can attain a higher quota
you're going to have a shallower trough
to dig yourself out of right conversely
if what you're doing isn't solving a
real customer pain you're going to have
to spend a lot more resources to get on
board each customer also tells us a lot
about the effectiveness of our execution
right are we generating high quality
leads at a at a reasonable cost are we
following up on them quickly and
converting them at a high rate are our
sales reps properly enabled well managed
if so these are all going to shrink your
ca payback
period perhaps uh less intuitively pack
payback period also tells us a lot about
the quality of a product if you have a
product that is really complex that
requires a lot of customization if sees
are in you know configuring and
customizing the product for each and
every customer who wants to try it out
if you have to
overinvestment payback period I want to
figure out how do I scale how do I add
sales capacity and if my C my C payback
is unhealthy if it's too long I want to
slow down I want to give myself Runway
to figure out which of these areas is
the drag factor make sure that I've
improve them before
accelerating so you might be asking what
is a good CAC payback period Well the
answer is it depends uh if you are in an
Enterprise business like service now for
example where their customers never chm
they always expand you'd be willing to
incur a longer CAC payback period
because that customer Life Time Value is
so high conversely if you're an an SMB
business where you might have higher
churn less expansion your C payback
period needs to be really low most
businesses are somewhere in between uh I
recommend checking out the maritech
capital website they have comps tables
with all the financial metrics for
publicly traded software companies you
can actually build a cohort that is
relevant to your business Benchmark
yourself and see how how you do all
right so that's CAC payback next let's
shift gears and talk about how we think
about the market that we're going
after at both moroi and samsara we had
competitors that were really narrowly
focused into specific segments of the
market so at moroi there were people
building Wi-Fi systems uh for health
care or for stadiums and we said hey the
whole world needs wi-fi at samsara we
had some Legacy competitors that had
really just focused their entire company
on Long Haul Trucking we said hey
there's this large large world of
physical operations Industries Trucking
is just a part of it and so we engaged
with the entire Market very early
understood what the common needs were
across verticals and really focused on
those areas um I dug up a screen grab
from one of our early uh Decks at
samsara this was actually pre-revenue
when we were building our initial
product and getting some beta feedback
from early users and you can see a pie
chart uh what are the different
industries that these customers are in
and we see schools we see local
governments we see food and beverage we
see Transportation right we are tracking
this systematically from the very very
early days and it really paid off right
we avoided going too deep into an area
that was maybe a niche or limited to one
one vertical industry and instead
focused on the common threads we can
fast forward to when we were about uh 10
million in ARR another screen grab from
one of our decks these are photos of our
actual customers and you can see the
industries lot of the same indust
industry names quite diverse at moroi
about 10 million in ARR same story right
broad diverse Industries everything from
government to healthcare to Enterprise
to higher ed and it turns out that
setting these uh seeds early and
allowing them to scale is incredibly
beneficial we can see now at nearly a
billion an ARR we have got a nice
distributed pie chart of Industry
verticals you can see some of our
customers here five of the top 10 waste
management companies six of the top 10
construction firms five of the top 10
Transportation firms Etc and there was a
surprising benefit here you know beyond
the ability to to scale Revenue which is
that we got really interesting ideas
from specific verticals we'd go and ask
all the other verticals hey is this
something you'd thought of and they'd
say you know I hadn't really thought
about that I didn't know it was
available to me but man that would be
really useful and it actually ended up
making the product better for
everyone you know in the early days when
we were about uh 100K in ARR we were
very prescriptive about our go to market
and where we were building Pipeline and
you know we didn't want to over index on
any one vertical so we said hey
transportation's important it starts
with a T let's do Transportation
Tuesdays and so every Tuesday the team
would be focused on building
Transportation pip pipeline so we were
allocating 1 out of 5 days about 20% of
our our sales capacity you know fast
forward to a billion in ARR so 10,000x
the scale and sure enough we see
Transportation just about 20% of our AR
so amazing how those early seeds can can
influence the the long-term
outcome all right so this is a bit about
thinking about verticals now let's think
about customer
sizes often people think about a binary
choice between SMB and
Enterprise and uh I think there's a
really important third segment in the
middle which we call the mid Market
which has been a incredibly powerful
element for growing and scaling both
moraki and samsara first what do we mean
by midmarket let's kind of Define some
terms here uh quick show of hands has
anyone been to pinhole coffee in Bernal
Heights in San
Francisco see maybe one or two hands
classic small business around the corner
for me I had the their coffee this
morning I love pinhole Joel done an
amazing job building that business
classic small business I won't ask for a
show of hands of how many of you have
been to Starbucks but obviously uh a
great example of a large
Enterprise now in the middle how many of
you have been to Blue Bottle all right a
bunch of You Blue Bottle is a great
example of a midmarket business they've
got about a 100 locations and
interestingly while a small business
like pinhole might be sold to the way
you'd sell to a consumer right you've
got a generalist owner who's wearing a
million hats that has to make a decision
quickly a midmarket business like blue
bottle is sold to like an Enterprise but
just in a more streamlined lightweight
and fast way and so engaging with the
midmarket early is an incredible way to
not only develop product Market fit and
in a repeatable sales motion but to
start to scale the
business one of the beautiful things
about midmarket customers is that you're
engaging with professional buyers right
so you might be talking to a director of
it or a VP of it they have the expertise
and the time to really give you
considered evaluation of your product
they're going to give you great feedback
about what your product does well where
it helps and what the limitations or
gaps are unlike an Enterprise they're
not going to expect it to be perfectly
tailored to their business right they're
going to be willing to accept tradeoffs
if it solves an important problem for
them and they can move fast right you
can typically have sales Cycles in a
matter of
months but they will still uh spend a
good amount of money right they'll pay
six figure ACV uh relatively frequently
so you can be doing 20 30 50 70k deals
into the mid-market and so your unit
economics will support a sales motion
that looks like a lighter weight scale
down Enterprise sales motion you can
have your paid demand gen you can have
your sdrs your AES your csms Etc your
AES are probably a little bit earlier in
their career they're going to be doing
more over zoom and they're not getting
on a plane as as often uh but you get
really fast feedback and you can iterate
quickly conversely with Enterprise
customers we're going to have a lot more
stakeholders obviously you're going to
have uh a number of requirements in
around security and customization that
can be uh more challenging for a smaller
business or an earlier product and
you're not going to get as many data
points about the market right if you're
talking to 10 50k opportunities in the
midmarket versus one 500k opportunity
getting a lot more signal about what's
common across customers and because
these mid-market customers look like
lighter weight Enterprises when you have
strong product Market fit in a
repeatable sales motion with healthy C
payback of course you're in a great
great position to move up Market in
scale so at ssara we started really
engaging with the midm market as well as
finding some of the Enterprises that
look like mid-market customers but just
a little bit bigger there aren't as many
of them but they exist and you can use
those mid-market customers to reference
cell into some of these Enterprise
customers with simpler requirements and
then over time you can build out all of
the security the Integrations the
organizational maturity to be able to to
onboard and manage these customers and
this is the journey that we've been on
over the last handful of years at
samsara really expanding up into the
Enterprise and now we've got about 1,500
customers paying us 100K or more we have
uh many dozens of customers paying us a
million dollars or more so we've got a
really solid Enterprise business but
about half of our ARR is still coming
from sub 100K customers which we think
of as the mid-market right so this is a
large segment that you can scale over
the long
time now when we were talking about
mid-market
customers we talked about one of the
benefits which is the quality of the
feedback that they give and i' like to
talk a bit about how we think about
Gathering feedback in a scalable and
structured way and using it to really
optimize our product
roap um in the early days before we were
uh charging customers before we had a
sales team at samsara I actually hired a
couple of adrs and had them cold call
into into potential customers and have
them book demos we're trying to find
people who said who were willing to take
half an hour to come see a product that
was in development and give their
feedback and myself or our the product
manager would do these demos we learn
about their environments we would learn
about the problems they were facing and
really pressure test hey if we built
this would you be willing to try it out
give us your feedback and if it solved
your problems what you consider buying
it how much would we pay and that gave
us really direct feedback from the
market while we were in the development
phase once we started selling and
revenue started to scale and from that1
to $10 million phase it became
unfeasible for us to of course be on
every intro
call uh so we actually in instrumented
product feedback into our CRM we created
a custom object in in Salesforce called
the feature request and if an AE or a
sales engineer was on a call with a
customer who asked for something we
didn't do yet
uh they would do a search in Salesforce
to see if that had been logged if it had
they would attach their opportunity to
it if not they could create it and it
allowed us to be very data driven about
understanding the needs for various
features on the road map right we have a
sales rep coming up to us who has a big
deal at the end of the quarter and that
customer really needs something they can
be very persuasive having this data
across many many many customers and
opportunities allowed us to make sure
that we're putting our R&D resources in
the right place understanding what was
going to impact the most number of
customers as well as the largest
deals so with these tools and the
ability to be data driven the sales team
and particularly the sales Engineers are
incredibly powerful as a way to capture
this customer feedback in a scalable way
we also wanted to make sure we were
hearing directly from customers and so
we built feedback directly into the
dashboard at moroi as well as samsara at
moroi we called it make a wish was a
little button that was at the bottom of
every page in the dashboard and so any
user of the system from the c-level exec
who might be signing the purchase order
to a day-to-day administrator could hit
the button type us a note about what
they'd like to see and we did this again
at samsara we improved it so we could
actually capture a screen grab of what
the user was seeing at the time and we
get thousands of these we get ideas for
new features and products we get
feedback back like hey when I'm using
this page I'm also trying to do X Y and
Z so a way I could see this all in one
place it would save me some clicks right
we get feedback about new things we can
build and we actually piped this
directly uh from our application into a
slack channel so any member of the R&D
team can take a look and see what
customers are asking of us in real
time so these techniques uh they're very
scalable uh but they are no substitute
for for getting out and meeting
customers in person uh in our line of
work that can be kind of interesting you
might need a a hard hat and a and a
safety vest or uh sometimes you get to
hang out with people who sell beer for a
living which is a lot of fun too uh but
regardless of who the customers are the
type of feedback and the insights that
you get are always so much richer when
you're there in person you can have the
Casual conversations you can talk to the
the day-to-day users you can take them
out for lunch so I encourage everyone to
be doing that regularly
so all of these are ways to help uh
scale products to get product Market fit
early to get the right go to market
motion motion allow them to compound
over time and I hope for all of you this
is not a uh skill that you use one time
but really something that becomes part
of the DNA of your company and you can
do it over and over and over again which
brings us to my fifth lesson the
importance of going multiproduct early
as we saw in our timeline at the
beginning at both samsara and and moroi
we had multiple products in the first
couple of years that eventually ended up
scaling to hundreds of millions or in
some cases billions of dollars in sales
and you know this is a little bit
uncomfortable in a way right if we think
about our product portfolio a couple
years in at at samsara at the time our
our first product vehicle telematics was
doing really really well it had a
multi-billion dollar addressable market
and there's a lot that it didn't do yet
uh there were features and Integrations
there were security capabilities for
large Enterprises that we very
rationally could have put all of our
resources into but instead we said no
we're of course going to keep investing
in and improving our initial product
we're going to take some of our team and
have them work on new products and do
that very early and this ended up being
incredibly beneficial for a couple
reasons first
there were some customers that we
couldn't get to right away because we
hadn't built out the features in our
telematics product but we traded those
for another set of customers who said
hey I'm willing to look past some uh
gaps because this company is offering me
multiple products in a single platform
and that's incredibly valuable second it
established our identity as a
multi-product platform very early we
developed the muscles around how to
engage with multiple users Within an
organization customers got the
expectation that hey samsara can do more
for me I want to tell them about what
I'd like to see from them next helped
our engineering team think about our
solution as a platform that's going to
man that's going to support multiple
applications over time and we fast
forward and we can see that at again
nearly a billion in ARR we have a nice
diverse mix of Revenue across products
you know people uh often say that at a
billion in ARR you really need your
second product I would argue that you
need to start a 100x earlier right have
your second product in market and
scaling at 10 million and boy does it
payoff um interesting anecdote actually
our uh number one product by ARR was
actually not our first product it has
overtaken our first product and you know
it's been incredibly impactful for
customers all right so we just blazed
through a number of lessons right the
magic of CAC payback and using that as a
governor for how fast
to scale your business when to iterate
the importance of discovering the entire
market across verticals the value of
midmarket customers and how incredibly
powerful they can be for Building
Product Market fit as well as scaling
Building Product feedback into the DNA
of your business and going multiproduct
early if you are interested in learning
more uh two call outs first there is no
substitute for learning by doing uh we
are hiring across uh nearly all
functions check out our our careers page
and we're also investing uh we invest in
startups that are building products for
the physical operations industry and we
provide not only Capital but a lot of
our learnings access to the early team
who helped to build samsara and access
to our customers so if you're interested
in either of these please check us
out